==General description==

This gem contains classes that make IP manipulation easier.

* Works with IPV4 and IPV6.
* Arithmetic operations (+, -, +=, -=). For example, if IP="1.2.3.4", then IP+1="1.2.3.5".
* Bitwise operations between IPs (|, &, ^).
* Left and righ shifts (&lt;&lt;, &gt;&gt;).
* Print IP in various formats:
** The standard dotted notation. For example: 192.168.12.10
** Decimal value. For example: 3232238602
** Binary. For example: 11000000101010000000110000001010
** Hexadecimal. For example: c0a80c0a
** Pretty binary. For example: 11000000.10101000.00001100.00001010
** Pretty hexadecimal. For example: c0.a8.0c.0a
* Subnet discovery.  What is the "/23" subnet that contains this IP?
* Subnet testing.  Is this IP included in this subnet?
* IP comparaison (&gt;, &lt;, &gt;=, &lt;=, ==, !=, &lt;=&gt;). For example: "1.2.3.4" > "1.2.3.5" : FALSE
* Manipulate IP like array. For examples, if IP="10.20.30.40":
** IP[1] is 20.
** IP[1] = 55, then IP="10.55.30.40"
* Create IPs from integers of strings.

==Requirement==

Ruby 1.9.1 or greater (tested with Ruby 1.9.3)

==Building the gem from sources==

<code>gem build ipcalc.gemspec</code>

==Installing the gem==

===Installing from rubygems.org===

If you just want to use the gem, then this is the preferred installation procedure.

<code>gem list -r ipcalc</code>

<code>gem install ipcalc</code>

===Installing from local file system===

This procedure assumes that you have downloaded the gem' sources from GutHub. If you just need to use the gem, you should install the gem from "Rubygems.org" (see next section).

You need to build the gem.

<code>gem build ipcalc.gemspec</code>

Then you can install the gem. Please note that we assume that the gem's version is 1.0.0.

<code>gem install ipcalc-1.0.0.gem</code>

==Examples==

See the example file: https://github.com/denis-beurive/ipcalc/tree/master/examples

==Building the documentation==

Using Rdoc:

<code>rdoc lib/ipcalc/*.rb</code>

Or, you can call rake:

<code>rake rdoc</code>

==Author==

Denis BEURIVE (http://beurive.com/)

==Licence==

GPL




